Experiment No. 4
 Experiment Title: Simulation and Display of Contrast stretching of a low contrast image,
 Histogram, and Histogram Equalization.
 AIM: To study the Contrast stretching of a low contrast image, Histogram, and Histogram
 Equalization.
 OBJECTIVE: To study the Image Processing concept.
 TOOLSREQUIRED:MATLAB
 THEORY:Contrast stretching (also called Normalization) attempts to improve an image by
 stretching the Range of intensity value it contains to make Full use of possible values. This
 this type of transformation is used to enhance low contrast images. In a low contrast image
 specific details are difficult to determine due to the fact that most pixels are at the same intensity
 value. Image Negatives technique is simply negates all of the values in image and
 adds the value of the maximum (absolute) intensity to all pixels in the image. Contract
 stretching is a common technique in that,,, the contrast of image is the distribution of its dark
 and light pixels. n contract stretching, a low-contrast image exhibits small differences
 between its light and dark pixel values.
 Histogram equalization is defined as a process by which an image which has very low
 contrast (signified by a grouping of mages histogram) can be modified bring out details not
 previously visible. Histogram equalization transformation is used to produce an image with a
 uniform probability density function of pixel intensities from an image with poor contrast.
 Image Subtraction technique is basic subtraction the grey level intensities of one image from
 another in a pixel-wise fashion. Histogram Equalization is,a common technique for
 enhancing the appearance of images. While the histogram of a low-contrast image is narrow.
 Hence, a better image could be obtained by stretching the histogram of an image so that the
 full dynamic range of the image is filled.
 Program Code:
 %Image Enhancement
 I=imread('cancercell.jpg');
 subplot(4,2,1); imshow(I); title('Original Image');
 g=rgb2gray(I);
subplot(4,2,5); imshow(g); title('Gray Image');
 J=imadjust(g,[0.3 0.7],[]);
 subplot(4,2,3); imshow(J); title('Enhanced Image');
 D=imadjust(I,[0.2 0.3 0; 0.6 0.7 1],[]);
 subplot(4,2,4);imshow(D);title('Enhanced Image 2');
 %Histogram and Histogram Equalization
 subplot(4,2,7); imhist(g); title('Histogram of Gray Image');
 m=histeq(g);
 subplot(4,2,6); imshow(m); title('Equalized Image');
 subplot(4,2,8); imhist(m); title('Histogram of Equalized Image');
 Simulation Results
